---
layout: post
title: TDD TTT 
---

## TDD + TTT = Profit? 

Taking the lessons I have learned from Gina this past Thursday and Friday I am implementing TDD while developing the TTT program. There has been a learning curve to applying TDD faithfully and utilizing it in such a way that it does not hinder your progress but it _enhances the quality of the prod code & grants you a clear direction_ of what should be next in terms of what the next prod code/test. With that being said here are some of the things I have picked up from working on TTT using TDD: 

## Challenges

- Figuring out the first test case to write for creating the TTT application (TDD approach)
- Figuring out whether `board` should be an array of char or strings
    - e.g. \[\\X \\O ...\] 
    - e.g. \["X" "O" ...\]
- What to test ***next***after testing for a tie game ==> Check for WIN
- In what order should I write the test cases & should I be initially checking for wins (true) or all the ***false ***cases first
- Do I need to make another **class/file** for the console?
- What should the initial board state be:
    - Completely empty \[\]
    - Vector full of ***blanks***, *e.g.* \[\\u0020 \\u0020 \\u0020 \\u0020 \\u0020 \\u0020 \\u0020 \\u0020 \\u0020\]
- Refactor `win?` into helper funcs (do that as soon as all the tests are passig --> green refacotring) or work on a diff part of TTT & come back later to refactor
    - Is something like this based on a case by case basis or should you prescribe to one *school of thought*?
    

## TIL

- obvious but **string **in Clojure can be viewed as a ***sequence of characters***
- **strings **are **objects **as opposed to sequences? (*Interesting...*are most data types in Clojure sequences then?) 
    - **char** is a primitive data type
    - **String **is a class in Java
- Clojure's **string **and **char **are based on `java.lang.String` and  `java.lang.Char`
- **When to use char vs. string:**
    - In terms of ***performance*** **char** takes up less memory for times when you only need one character 
    - Also, since **String **is an object --> it comes at a greater overhead 
    - **Primitive types **in Java (Clojure as well...) have an *advantages* in terms of **speed** and **memory footprint**
- **\\u0020** = blank space
- Start with all the **false **cases (idea is that the prod code is general but the test cases can be specific - *throwback to the **inverse relationship** btwn. prod code & testing*

## Joplin 

I have recently been using **Joplin** for my note taking - especially when I am working on a user story. The idea is that I work on a user story for about **_30~60mins_** and then I take about a **_5-10mins_** break where I open up my note in Joplin and write down a challenge, TIL, etc. that I encountered while working on the user story. This process is **_repeated_** until the task at hand is complete. Anyways, all of this is done with the intent of keeping track of how I am making progress through the user story && **most importantly** Joplin has an option to view your notes in **_markdown format_** so when I am ready to write my blog I execute my series of complicated command shortcuts: **`cmd + c cmd + v`** and just like that I am mostly done writing a majority of my blog. Just gotta add a nice opening and closing section, just like what I am doing right now haha. 

