---
layout: post
title: Friyay
---

## Week 1 <span>&#10003;</span>

Wow, I cannot believe that it has already been a week working at Clean Coders! Time flew by so quickly for me, and I'm afraid that the next five months are also going to be gone just like that. _Hmmm_ it seems like when you are enjoying yourself time does tend to move quickly 😄 
Not that I am counting down the days or anything but there are **140 days** until _October 1st, 2021_. Considering that I started my apprenticeship on **May 10, 2021** roughly ~five months from now should get me to October (_psst the apprenticeship is for five months_). 
Somehow converting the number of months to days gives me a better idea of how much time I have before the conclusion of the apprenticeship and while **140 days** is a long time, I want to squeeze the most I can out of every single day. 
The one thing that disappoints me the most is when I have a day where I was not giving my best and I let myself get lazy and complacent. But anyways, I am glad that I finished the Clojure Koans yesterday **AND** I made it through my first week of my apprenticeship!


## Today's Tasks:

1. Just for my own benefit, I am going over the Clojure Koans one more time to solidfy what I have learned & also to double check my understanding.  Plan is to work through koans #1 - 9. 
2. Solve some euler problems. (Plan is to figure out how many I want to get done on a daily basis.) 
3. Get some preliminary work done on **Bowling Game Kata**
4. Start reading through _Programming Clojure_ (Goal is to take my time & absorb the material.) 

## Challenges 

- Getting enough sleep! I think this is my first challenge that is not strictly code/work related. I have been trying to wake up early in the morning (_5ish AM_) and head to the office to get an early start on my day. However, I have been going to sleep around **11PM/12AM** so I have not been giving myself adequate sleep. The goal is to commit to a healthy sleep schedule where I get the sleep that I need and be able to wake up early. 

## TIL

- The _difference_ between a **seq** and a **list**
    1. Getting the _length_ of a **seq** can be **costly**
        - A *list* always holds a record of its own **length**. So, the operation of counting a list is `O(1)`, _i.e. constant time_
        - On the other hand, a _seq_ needs to **first traverse itself** to get its `count`
    2. **seqs** can be _lazy_, whereas **lists** cannot
    3. **seqs** can be _infinite_, thus **uncountable**; whereas, **lists** are always _countable_
- The _difference_ between functions **cons(seq)** and a **conj(list)**
    1. **The # of arguments** each function takes 
        - `conj` accepts any number of arguments to insert into a collection 
        - `cons`, on the other hand, **only takes one argument**
    2. _Class of the returned value_
        - `(class (**conj** '(1 2 3) 4))` returns **`clojure.lang.PersistentList`**
        - `(class (**cons** 4 '(1 2 3)))` returns **`clojure.lang.Cons`**
            - The generalized usage of `cons` is defined to be: ***construct a record of some type or other to hold a number of values together***.
        - The two types of returned classes are **not interchangeable**. `clojure.lang.Cons` does not implement `clojure.lang.Counted` 
            - **`count`** on `clojure.lang.Cons` is no longer a **constant time operation.**
    3. An interesting tidbit on the names **cons** and **conj**
        - `cons` means to **cons**(truct a seq)
        - `conj` means to **conj**(oin an item into a collection) 
- Roughly speaking, a `PersistentArrayMap` will be turned into a `PersistentHashMap` as soon as it grows beyond **9 entries**. 


## Looking forward to the weekend and...Week 2

My plan over the weekend is to go night time hiking at Piestewa with my mom and brother on Saturday and on Sunday hang out with a couple of friends at _snakes and latte_. I'm looking forward to two of my favorite activities which are hanging out my friends & getting in some good exercise. After my meeting with Micah yesterday, what stood out to me was when Micah was telling me that he is looking for _teammates_, not employees. He wants someone who is proactive and has a desire to **grow and improve**. His sentiment resonated with me, and now I have a solid understanding of why everything seems _laid-back and hands-off_. That's because it is up to me to decide what I am going to do with my time instead of having someone micro-manage me. What a great opportunity for me to rise to the occasion and do the best that I can. Looking ahead to **week 2** I am even more determined and excited to bring my A-game for that week. 
